Golang:  Document new automation tool (#18386)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/agents/go-agent/installation/install-automation-new-relic-go.mdx

---

> title: 'Go easy instrumentation tool'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Go easy instrumentation'
```
Final nit pick. Otherwise, LGTM

In an effort to make instrumentation easier, the Go agent team created the Go easy instrumentation tool that is currently in preview. This tool does most of the work for you by suggesting changes to your source code that instrument your application with the New Relic Go agent.

To get started, check out this [four-minute video](https://asciinema.org/a/r0Il7o2eMiZaLKHIlew3IL2nx), or skip down to [How it works](#how-it-works).

 ## Preview notice [#preview-notice]
<CollapserGroup>
    <Collapser
        id="preview-usage-details"
        title="What you can expect from this preview"
    >
    This feature is currently provided as part of a product preview and is subject to our New Relic Experimental policies. Recommended code changes are suggestions only and should be subject to human review for accuracy, applicability, and appropriateness for your environment. This feature should only be used in non-critical, non-production environments that do not contain sensitive data.

>     This project, its code, and the UX are under heavy development, so you should expect it to change. Please take this into consideration when participating in this preview. If you encounter any issues, please report them using [Github issues](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation) and fill out as much of the issue template as you can so we can improve this tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This project, its code, and the UX are under heavy development, so you should expect it to change. Please take this into consideration when participating in this preview. If you encounter any issues, please report them using [Github issues](https://github.com/newrelic/go-easy-instrumentation) and fill out as much of the issue template as you can so we can improve this tool.
```

    </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## How it works [#how-it-works]

This tool doesn't interfere with your application's operation, and it doesn't make any changes to your code directly. Here's what happens:

* It analyzes your code and suggests changes that allow the Go agent to capture telemetry data.      
* You review the changes in the `.diff` file and decide which changes to add to your source code.

As part of the analysis, this tool may invoke `go get` or other Go language toolchain commands which may modify your `go.mod` file, but not your actual source code.

<Callout variant="important">

>   This tool can't detect if you already have New Relic instrumentation. Please only use this tool on applications without any instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This tool can't detect if you already have New Relic instrumentation. Please only use this tool on applications without existing instrumentation.
```

</Callout>

## What is instrumented? [#what-is-instrumented]

The scope of what this tool can instrument in your application is limited to these actions:

* Capturing errors in any function wrapped or traced by a transaction
* Tracing locally defined functions that are invoked in the application's `main()` method with a transaction
* Tracing async functions and function literals with an async segment
* Wrapping HTTP handlers
* Injecting distributed tracing into external traffic

Only the following Go packages and libraries are currently supported:

* standard library
* net/http

## Installation [#go-easy-install]

Before you start the installation steps below, make sure you have a version of Go installed that is within the support window for the current [Go programming language lifecycle](https://endoflife.date/go).

> 1. Clone the [Go instrumentation repository](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation) to a directory on your system. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone the [Go instrumentation repository](https://github.com/newrelic/go-easy-instrumentation) to a directory on your system. For example:
```

    ```sh

>     git clone .../go-agent-pre-instrumentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git clone https://github.com/newrelic/go-easy-instrumentation.git
```

    ```
2. Go into that directory:
    ```sh

>     cd go-agent-pre-instrumentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cd go-easy-instrumentation
```

    ```
3. Resolve any third-party dependencies:
    ```sh
    go mod tidy
    ```
## Generate instrumentation suggestions [#generate-suggestions]

> This tool works best with Git. It's a best practice to ensure that your application is on a branch without any unstaged changes before applying any of the generated changes to it. After checking that, follow these steps to generate and apply the changes that install the New Relic Go agent in an application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tool works best with Git. We recommend you verify your application is on a branch without any unstaged changes before applying any of the generated changes to it. After checking that, follow these steps to generate and apply the changes that install the New Relic Go agent in an application:
```

> 1. Go to parser directory: `cd parser`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `parser` directory: `cd parser`
```

> 2. Run the following CLI command to create a file named `new-relic-instrumentation.diff` in your working directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a file named `new-relic-instrumentation.diff` in your working directory:
```

> 1. Go to the `parser` directory: `cd parser`
> 2. Run the following CLI command to create a file named `new-relic-instrumentation.diff` in your working directory:
>     ```sh
>     go run . -path ../my-application/`
>     ```
> 3. Open the `.diff` file and verify or correct the contents.
> 4. When you are satisfied with the instrumentation suggestions, save the file, and then apply the changes:
>     ```sh
>     mv new-relic-instrumentation.diff ../my-application/
>     cd ../my-application
>     git apply new-relic-instrumentation.diff
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following CLI command to create a file named `new-relic-instrumentation.diff` in your working directory:
    ```sh
    go run . -path ../my-application/`
    ```
2. Open the `.diff` file and verify or correct the contents.
3. When you are satisfied with the instrumentation suggestions, save the file, and then apply the changes:
    ```sh
    mv new-relic-instrumentation.diff ../my-application/
    cd ../my-application
    git apply new-relic-instrumentation.diff
    ```
```

Once the changes are applied, the application should run with the New Relic Go agent installed. If the agent installation is not working the way you want it to, you can easily recover by using common Git commands. For example, you could try one of the following:

*  Stash the changes with `git stash`

> *  Revert the code to a previous commit

Reviewer 2: Maybe add the Git command for this bullet point, to match the one above

## What's next? [#what-is-next]

> If you have any suggestions or find issues, please create a [Github issue](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any suggestions or find issues, please create a [Github issue](https://github.com/newrelic/go-easy-instrumentation).  
```

---
title: 'Simplify installation with Go instrumentation tool'
tags:
  - Agents
  - Go agent
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to use a script to get code suggestions to instrument your Golang apps and services.
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-08-20 
---
<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

Go is a compiled language with an opaque runtime, making it unable to support automatic instrumentation like other languages. For this reason, the New Relic Go agent is designed as an SDK. Since the Go agent is an SDK, it requires more manual work to set up than agents for languages that support automatic instrumentation.

> In an effort to reduce that manual effort, the Go agent team created an easy instrumentation tool for Go that is currently in preview. This tool will do most of the work for you by suggesting changes to your source code that instrument your application with the New Relic Go agent.

Reviewer 3: "easy" is a pretty subjective word and doesn't fit easily into a technical writing/documentation context. I think it's better to say that the Go agent team attempted to make Go instrumentation "easier", but I don't think we can confidently state, technically, that it is "easy"

Author: @paperclypse OK, I went with this: "In an effort to make instrumentation easier, the Go agent team created an instrumentation tool that is currently in preview. This tool will do most of the work for you by suggesting changes to your source code that instrument your application with the New Relic Go agent."

> To get started, check out this [four-minute video](https://asciinema.org/a/r0Il7o2eMiZaLKHIlew3IL2nx), or skip down to [How it works](#how-it-works):

Reviewer 3: The colon at the end of this feels odd to me

Author: @paperclypse good catch! I replaced that with a period.

## Preview notice [#preview-notice]

This feature is currently provided as part of a product preview and is subject to our New Relic Experimental policies. Recommended code changes are suggestions only and should be subject to human review for accuracy, applicability, and appropriateness for your environment. This feature should only be used in non-critical, non-production environments that do not contain sensitive data.

This project, its code, and the UX are under heavy development, so you should expect it to change. Please take this into consideration when participating in this preview. If you encounter any issues, please report them using [Github issues](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation) and fill out as much of the issue template as you can so we can improve this tool.

## How it works [#how-it-works]

> This tool will not interfere with your application's operation, and it doesn't make any changes to your code directly. Here's what happens:

Reviewer 3: Try to avoid "will". 

How about: "This tool doesn't interfere with your..."

Author: @paperclypse I removed the uses of "will."

> * It analyzes your source code and identifies opportunities to instrument it.

Reviewer 3: "opportunities" is odd... Does it identify methods to instrument or simply places in the code where you can add the instrumentation code?

Reviewer 3: "It" feels weird too. Can we get more specific? 

I feel like there are really two steps to this: 
1. You run the tool. It analyzes the code and suggests changes to your code.
2. You review the changes in the .diff file and decide which changes to add to your source code.

Author: @paperclypse I went with this revision:

* It analyzes your code and suggests changes that allow the Go agent to capture telemetry data.      
* You review the changes in the `.diff` file and decide which changes to add to your source code.

* It suggests changes to your code that use the New Relic Go agent SDK to capture telemetry data.
* You review those sugestions that are inserted in a `.diff` file and decide which changes to apply to your source code.

As part of the analysis, this tool may invoke `go get` or other Go language toolchain commands which may modify your `go.mod` file, but not your actual source code.

<Callout variant="important">
  This tool can't detect if you already have New Relic instrumentation. Please only use this tool on applications without any instrumentation.
</Callout>

## What is instrumented? [#what-is-instrumented]

The scope of what this tool can instrument in your application is limited to these actions:

* Capturing errors in any function wrapped or traced by a transaction

> * Tracing locally defined functions that are invoked in the application's main() method with a transaction

Reviewer 3: Should be main be `main()`?

Author: @paperclypse yes! I had backticks around this in the README--just not here! I fixed it.

* Tracing async functions and function literals with an async segment
* Wrapping HTTP handlers
* Injecting distributed tracing into external traffic

Only the following Go packages and libraries are currently supported:

* standard library
* net/http

## Installation [#go-easy-install]

> Before you start the installation steps below, make sure you have a version of Go installed that is within the support window for the current [Go programming language lifecycle](https://endoflife.date/go).

Reviewer 3: Why not just state the supported version here? Are you worried about long-term maintainability?

Author: Yes

---

> title: 'Simplify installation with Go easy instrumentation'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Simplify installation with Go Easy Instrumentation'
```
I would treat this as a Name

tags:
  - Agents
  - Go agent
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to use a script to get code suggestions to instrument your Golang apps and services.
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-08-20 
---
<Callout title="preview">

>   We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

Reviewer 4: This feature is still under development, however, we would love you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

Go is a compiled language with an opaque runtime, making it unable to support automatic instrumentation like other languages. For this reason, the New Relic Go agent is designed as an SDK. Since the Go agent is an SDK, it requires more manual work to set up than agents for languages that support automatic instrumentation.

> In an effort to reduce that manual effort, the Go agent team created the Go easy instrumentation tool, which is currently in preview. This tool will do most of the work for you by suggesting changes to your source code that instrument your application with the New Relic Go agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an effort to reduce that manual effort, the Go agent team created the Go Easy Instrumentation tool, which is currently in preview. This tool will do most of the work for you by suggesting changes to your source code that instrument your application with the New Relic Go agent.
```

To get started, check out this four-minute video, or skip down to [How it works](#how-it-works):

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/r0Il7o2eMiZaLKHIlew3IL2nx.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/r0Il7o2eMiZaLKHIlew3IL2nx)

## Preview notice [#preview-notice]

> This feature is currently provided as part of a product preview and is subject to our New Relic Experimental policies. Recommended code changes are suggestions only and should be subject to human review for accuracy, applicability, and appropriateness for your environment. This feature should only be used in non-critical, non-production environments that do not contain sensitive data.

Reviewer 4: Can be added as an important call out

Author: @cbehera-newrelic I'll check with the legal team to see what they want to do.

Reviewer 3: @rhetoric101 Do we need this full statement? I almost want to just stick this into the callout at the very top. It's pretty trivial to scroll past. 

Here, it really disrupts the flow of your doc, either as a callout or in its current state.

Here's an idea: what if you put it into a collapser?

Reviewer: I think that we would want legal sign off for that. I am not sure how prominently the disclaimer needs to be displayed.

Author: @iamemilio I received permission from Legal to put this "Preview notice" section in a collapser. I've just pushed up this change.

This project, its code, and the UX are under heavy development, so you should expect it to change. Please take this into consideration when participating in this preview. If you encounter any issues, please report them using [Github issues](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation) and fill out as much of the issue template as you can so we can improve this tool.

## How it works [#how-it-works]

This tool will not interfere with your application's operation, and it doesn't make any changes to your code directly. Here's what happens:

* It analyzes your source code and identifies opportunities to instrument it.

> * It suggests changes to your code that use the New Relic Go agent SDK to capture telemetry data.

Reviewer 4: It suggests changes to your code that uses...

Author: @cbehera-newrelic I think it's OK to keep "use." For example, if we were to drop "changes to your code," it would look like this: "Changes that use...."

* You review those sugestions that are inserted in a `.diff` file and decide which changes to apply to your source code.

As part of the analysis, this tool may invoke `go get` or other Go language toolchain commands which may modify your `go.mod` file, but not your actual source code.

<Callout variant="important">

>   This tool can't detect if you already have New Relic instrumentation. Please only use this on applications without any instrumentation.

Reviewer 4: Use the tool on applications without any instrumentation.

Author: Nice suggestion! I'll fix this!

</Callout>

## What is instrumented? [#what-is-instrumented]

The scope of what this tool can instrument in your application is limited to these actions:

* Capturing errors in any function wrapped or traced by a transaction
* Tracing locally defined functions that are invoked in the application's main() method with a transaction
* Tracing async functions and function literals with an async segment
* Wrapping HTTP handlers
* Injecting distributed tracing into external traffic

Only the following Go packages and libraries are currently supported:

* standard library
* net/http

## Installation [#go-easy-install]

> Before you start the installation steps below, make sure you have a version of Go installed that is within the support window for the current [Go programming language lifecycle](https://endoflife.date/go).

Reviewer 4: Alternate: Before starting the following installation steps, ensure that the installed Go version is within the [Go programming language lifecycle](https://endoflife.date/go) support window.

> 1. Clone the [Go easy instrumentation repository](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation) to a directory on your system. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone the [Go Easy Instrumentation repository](https://github.com/newrelic/go-agent-assisted-instrumentation) to a directory on your system. For example:
```
